foreign
and welcome to the very first episode of
the Mel Robbins podcast
I am so freaking fired up to be here
with you this has been a long freaking
time coming am I right I've been
thinking about doing this damn thing for
so long and now the day is finally here
I'm sitting here with my mic in my hand
I've been thinking about this moment
forever I'm so excited to talk to you
I'm just bursting at the seams I gotta
take a deep breath because I don't want
to be shouting at you the entire time
that we're doing this first episode so
first of all thank you thank you for
being here with me thank you for
listening thank you for inviting me into
your life as you work at home run
errands go for a walk I gotta say your
support and how you have shown up for
the Mel Robbins podcast it is blowing me
away I have a hard time accepting
compliments accepting gifts accepting
health it's part of my type A
personality and I am so overwhelmed
because of you and your excitement and
your enthusiasm and your support this
podcast is debuting as the number one
ranked education podcast in the freaking
world and that's not all we are a
top-ranking podcast on every single
platform out there I don't even know
what to say
clearly you are as excited about this as
I am and I am overwhelmed by your
support I am grateful and I'm also
grateful because
the day that this episode comes out it's
my 54th birthday
and as I sit here
I just want to tell you
your support
and you being here listening is the
single greatest birthday present I've
ever received
my mission with the Mel Robbins podcast
is simple
to help you create a better life
and everybody keeps asking me so what's
the show about well the show is about
you and me creating a better life and
every single episode it's going to be
packed with entertaining and actionable
takeaways that you can apply to your own
life it'll also have the simple
science-backed tools and inspiration
that I've taught to people around the
world that have helped them change their
lives and to find the happiness and
fulfillment that you deserve
now how's this going to work simple I'm
going to be here twice a week every
single week with the inspiration the
hilarious stories yes you will
absolutely meet a ton of amazing and
inspiring people on this podcast through
the interviews that I'll do as we dig
into topics that we you and I care about
but mostly this podcast is you and me
we're going to dig into life together
every single week I'm going to take you
behind the scenes and on the road and
into my life in real time and I got to
tell you that's somewhat problematic
because right now if you could see me I
am sitting in the corner of a hotel room
on the floor surrounded by a fortress
made of pillows and couch cushions and
blankets and there's a construction site
outside and so I have to stop and then
start and stop and then start but that's
my commitment I don't want this to be a
show I can't do this thing in a studio I
want this to be two friends having a
conversation I want this to be deeply
connected to what's going on in my life
and so that's what I'm going to do and
I'm going to be sharing the relatable
ups and downs as they happen in my
family and in my business and in my head
and I'm going to give you the takeaways
and the breakdowns and the secrets as
I'm unpacking them and learning them and
discovering them because here's the deal
I am committed
to supporting you and I hope you will
support me as we both go after our
dreams and we both try to improve our
lives now I know that there are a ton of
new folks listening to this podcast and
so I really wanted to just take a moment
before we jump into the topic and say
welcome and I also wanted to introduce
myself to those of you who may be
hearing my voice for the first time
now between you and me
I hate it when somebody asks me so what
do you do for a living because the truth
is I've done a lot especially in the
past 10 years as my husband and I have
clawed our way out of bankruptcy and one
by one teed up and faced the problems in
our lives
and address them and as I've done the
work to build the business and the
following that you see today
but when I start to explain my
background Or List off accomplishments I
just feel really self-conscious because
the fact is I don't think about myself
as someone who's done all these things
I'm just focused on sharing what I'm
learning and helping people
and I just figure that boy now that I'm
on the other side of so many issues I
struggled with
if I can save you the headache and the
heartache that I cause myself because I
just didn't know any better
that
is so fulfilling
and that's what motivates me
so you know I was sitting here going
okay I gotta introduce myself how do I
do this in a really fun way how do I
make this entertaining how do I give you
an insight to who I really am and I
thought oh I got a great idea what if I
asked are 17 year old teenage son Oakley
Robbins if he would come on and tell you
what he tells people when they say what
did your mom do
now when I first asked him about this he
was like
no
there's no what I'm not introducing you
have somebody else introduce you I'm
like and I talk to him I explain why it
would really support me and it would
really help me and so he acquiesced he's
not that happy about this I have no idea
what he's going to say there is not a
script in front of him and so
everybody
please welcome
Oakley Robbins
all right so pretty good so I so I asked
somebody that knows me really well to
introduce me to you guys and that person
is me her son Oakley Robbins
my 17 year old son everybody
I was asked to introduce my mom I don't
like introducing myself or my mom so I
just gotta jump right into it okay go so
let me tell you about my mom guys she's
the most successful female motivational
speaker in the world
it's pretty big but not as big as not as
big as the fact that she was on CNN for
four years wait that was a long time ago
yeah but it's CNN four years why was
that a big deal because it's CNN I know
but how old were you nine how did you
even know what that was
because like it's a popular News
broadcasting agency I don't know not
important it is important moving on
she's a self-published book author she
wrote two books uh the five second rule
and the high five habit boom she also
wrote a journal
the the journal she has six audio books
because audible loves her I love audible
she has a YouTube channel right there
million Subs that's big
um does it bother you that your mother
has a million subs and you still have
not started your YouTube channel no okay
in time in time
um but it does bother me that all my
friends know who you are and all they do
is talk about you oh that would suck I
know they're literally gonna pull up
this video and be like Oakley look it's
you I'm gonna be like I know
um but on a more important note people
do stop you to say like Mel you've
changed my life in this way in this way
and it's really cool except she has yet
to change my life so it's not important
but seriously though she's an awesome
person and the best mom I could ask for
and when I want to chill I'd say I go to
dad because he's literally the chillest
guy ever but uh when I need honest when
I literally need anything I go to this
person right here
that's true because you called me after
midnight on Saturday oh no no no no no
no no
you couldn't say that you can't say that
you can't say that you can't say that
you didn't call your dad you called your
mom well because you he wouldn't pick up
any of his toe beds so
you called me yes because I can fix
anything yeah
yeah that's true and I also have your
back
always okay that was bad let's do that
again
I'm not really sure I would do that
again with you Oakley
okay
I wouldn't either so
okay you can leave now can I tell the
story about what happens I don't know no
I got a podcast to do can you leave now
no can you leave please because I got I
got stuff I need to talk to everybody
about thank you ladies and gentlemen
that was Oakley Robbins thank you thank
you
okay well that didn't go the way I
thought it would but it was definitely
way more fun than listening to me read
some list right but so far nothing has
gone according to plan with episode one
I have recorded this about 17 different
times I thought I was going to be in
some kind of fancy studio and obviously
I'm now in a pillow fort and I've
learned the hard way that it shouldn't
be in a fancy Studio
because this isn't a show that's not my
intention here I want to have a
conversation with you I want this to
feel like you're talking to a friend I
want this to be a back and forth and you
know what I love about sitting here on
the floor of my room I kind of feel like
you're sitting across from me that we're
just having a cup of coffee or we're
hanging out and we're talking about life
and so today here's what I want to talk
to you about I want to talk to you about
three simple steps that you can take to
create powerful changes in your life
and I'm talking really big changes yes
the steps are simple but simple over
time creates amazing results and simple
is important because if it's simple you
can do it as I already said these are
the three steps that led me to launching
this podcast they're the three steps
that I use to help me start working on
my marriage and making my mental health
stronger they're also the three steps
that help me make the move from a very
busy and stressful life outside of
Boston Massachusetts where my husband
Chris and I had raised our family for
the last 26 years and make a major move
and a major change
to a simpler Lifestyle by moving to a
Tiny Town in southern Vermont Now using
these three steps I not only changed my
life I have reinvented every aspect of
my life over the past two years and
today I'm going to share those steps
with you I'm going to tell you the whole
story and I want to help you I want to
inspire and Empower you to make the
changes that you have been thinking
about as you go about your day-to-day
life
you know speaking of life
I think about life as one long road trip
your past right now is behind you it's
in the rear view mirror and the future
it's right out that windshield that's
why the windshield is bigger than the
rear view mirror because we're not going
backwards people we're not doing that to
ourselves we're going ahead and you know
what's in front of you an Open Road
every single birthday I believe is a
mile marker on this road trip called
life it's a chance to pull over for a
second and think about the open road
ahead where do you want to go next how
fast you want to go how slow who do you
want to have in the car with you there's
endless metaphors around this and it
helps me think about this major topic of
reinvention and change now I love
birthdays I'm sure you do too and I love
them for so many reasons because every
time you're celebrating a birthday I
mean think about what you're actually
celebrating
we're celebrating the fact that you're
still here
we're celebrating your existence that
you're breathing that you're alive how
cool is that and you want to know what
else we're celebrating when we celebrate
your birthday
we're celebrating the possibility and
Magic that your life and the future and
that next year holds for you
now there's one part of celebrating your
birthday
that I want you to really think about
okay
you know that moment when the cake comes
out
your mom or your dad or your spouse or
your friends or the waiter they bring
out that cake and the candles are
burning on top and everyone starts
singing happy birthday to you
and then they put the cake down
you look at the candles you close your
eyes
and you make a wish
and for just a moment
time stops
have you ever noticed
that as that cake gets closer to you and
you start going inside and thinking
about the wish that you're going to make
you don't even hear anybody singing
anymore
you hear something inside yourself
you hear something deep from within
you close your eyes you grab that wish
and you blow out those candles as if
it's going to magically make that wish
come true
and when you open your eyes you're
present to the wish
you feel excited for the year and you
can almost see all the new possibility
that you could tap into in the year
ahead
well researchers have a name for this
exact moment it's called The Fresh Start
effect
when you make that birthday wish you
break from your past self
and this transformational window of time
opens up
you think bigger you feel hopeful and
inspired and there's some incredibly
interesting research that explains why
these moments are so powerful
I'm looking right now at a study from
the Wharton School of Business at the
University of Pennsylvania where they've
studied the intrinsic motivational power
of this Fresh Start effect
researchers studied moments in our life
where we feel motivated to make big
changes and birthdays are an example of
that it's as if a birthday hands you a
blank slate a clean page a fresh start
at a whole new year and this feeling
inside you ignites an intrinsic
motivational aspirational Force that's
hardwired within you it's this power to
change now you've experienced this Fresh
Start effect at other times in your life
too just think about the new year
January 1st hello Fresh Start effect now
January 1st is one of those moments
where all of a sudden last year ends
boom slam the door on that year and
something new opens up a whole new you a
clean slate an open road this is why by
the way so many people start a diet on
January 1st hello Mel Robbins so many
people go to the gym for the first time
on January 1st it gives them a natural
mental starting line to cross on a new
leg of the journey called life how cool
is that you also experience this Fresh
Start motivation with every new semester
in school the start of a new sports
season you feel like this could be our
year right that's the Fresh Start effect
the birth of a child a breakup a wedding
a death these are all moments in time
where something ends and something else
begins and it's not only happening in
the physical space it's happening in the
psychological and spiritual space that's
why so much stirs inside you according
to the research I just realized you know
this Fresh Start effect this is probably
why I'm addicted to buying new journals
every time I get a new Journal I crack
it open and I literally feel like a new
Mel is about to pour out on all those
open empty pages this phenomenon is so
powerful that researchers have even
created a label to describe anything
that triggers that Fresh Start motivate
nation that stirs inside you like your
birthday January 1st that new Journal a
new semester at school these things are
called temporal landmarks now let me
explain what a temporal Landmark is a
temporal Landmark is a date or an
experience or a physical thing that
marks the passing of time January 1st
for example is a date it marks the end
of one year and the beginning of a new
year and when the new year begins you
cross that starting line mentally to
think about a whole new you your
birthday is the exact same thing it's
another year another mile on the road of
your life and this creates all kinds of
new possibilities about the stretch of
open road ahead a new semester is an
experience that's always brimming with
excitement new friends new experiences a
chance to think differently about who
you are and how you're going to show up
and what you want a breakup or a divorce
now that's a major temporal Landmark
because it not only marks time it also
impacts your identity your life as a
couple before and now your life as you
after the breakup but here's what
researchers have found that I think is
fascinating about what happens to your
psychology and motivation and thinking
temporal landmarks not only Mark the
passing of time
they open up a whole new mental
accounting period just like an
accountant closes the books at the end
of a fiscal year and opens up a fresh
page to begin a whole new fiscal year
the event whether it's January 1 the
first of the month the Monday the end of
a fiscal year or making a wish on your
birthday
this landmark
creates a break from the past you
it separates you from the things that
you feel are imperfect and it silences
all that judgment that you have about
yourself and here's the cool thing
when you shut that judge inside you down
you open the door to A Whole New Vision
for yourself it creates a break from
your past self the things that you feel
are imperfect about you or your life and
the things that you judge yourself for
and here's what's really amazing when
you stop judging yourself and you stop
focusing on what you think is wrong with
your life
you open up the floodgates to what might
be
so let's go back to that moment when you
make a wish on your birthday
as soon as you see that cake coming with
those candles burning
you go in
you stop hearing everyone singing You
Close Your Eyes why because mentally a
new accounting period is opening up
you stop caring about the song
and the people around you and what's
happening outside of you you tune into
what you're feeling on the inside in
your heart in your soul what you dream
about that thing that's calling from you
deep inside that normally you can't hear
because you're so focused on all the
stupid stuff that we all obsess about
no one even has to tell you to close
your eyes
you see that cake coming you know that
you can make a wish you just do it
naturally and when you go inward
you're disrupting the circuitry of your
old thinking your old judgments and your
past habits for just a moment you're
escaping the old you
and then
you make the wish
a wish for what could be a wish for what
will happen this year in the next year
of your life
and the same thing happens when you sit
down at the end of the year and you
create resolutions not the one you share
with people at a party I'm talking about
the real ones that you write down in
your Journal
here's another moment like that you know
that moment after a really painful
breakup
this one takes a little bit of time
because you basically need to cry and
feel bad about yourself for about a
month or two you know
and then one morning you wake up and you
realize
oh my God
I'm happy that's over
I'm better off single and you let go of
the relationship and the version of you
who was holding on to it for so long
and more importantly in that moment of
acceptance you stop judging yourself and
you realize you'll be okay no
you'll be more than okay
you're going to be great because of this
and then you start to do the work to
create a better life
these temporal landmarks are a big
psychological deal because something
really profound happens inside of you
for a second
you snap out of all the stressful
[ __ ] that's going on and the
relentless self-criticism
and you have this mental Freedom this
temporary break from your normal
negative thinking and you allow yourself
to consider the bigger picture
you allow yourself to Envision the
future you
tap into your deepest hopes your wildest
dreams and your most exciting
aspirations
you see a vision for a better life
you see that yes you deserve to be happy
and that's exactly what I want you and I
to experience today on episode 1 of the
Mel Robbins podcast let's hold each
other's hand and sit side by side and
imagine what might be possible in the
next year of Our Lives if we let go of
the past and we hold on to our dreams
that's the invitation I'm giving to you
allow yourself to have a fresh start
you don't have to wait for your birthday
or January 1st to change your life you
can turn the page on the past and start
writing that new chapter today and in
just a few minutes I'm going to share
the three simple steps that you can use
to create that powerful change that
you've been wishing wanting or dreaming
about the fact is change is possible and
you can't convince me otherwise I know
you might try but I know that it's a
fact change is possible it's possible
for everyone and it's possible for you
now we're going to talk about this in
depth but the bottom line is if you can
imagine that new chapter there is a way
to make it happen and I guarantee you
someone else on the planet has done it I
mean there's about eight billion people
on this planet someone else has faced
what you're going through right now
someone else has built the company that
you dream about building someone else
has gone from where you are to where you
envision yourself going someone else has
improved their relationship healed their
mental illness and if someone else has
done it you can do it too start seeing
people in the world around you as
evidence of your own success being
possible I want you to start saying to
yourself if they can do it then I can do
it other people's success just proves
that you're worthy of what you want and
more importantly that you're capable of
reverse engineering how they got there
and doing the work to get it for
yourself now I get it it might not
happen the same way or look the same way
you might not be starting on the same
starting line
and it might not take the same amount of
time but if you keep telling yourself if
they can do it I can do it you're going
to change your mindset and you're going
to see that yes it's true there is
Limitless success love money and
happiness there's enough for everyone
and there's enough for you
and I want you to use me as an example
from time to time if Mel Robbins can do
it then I can do it and honestly I'm
going to be looking to you for the same
encouragement from time to time because
I'm sure there are things you've
accomplished or experienced that I
haven't so let's agree we're going to
encourage one another through this thing
okay
I know how to create massive change
because I just did this in my own life
over the past two years I've completely
reinvented myself and every aspect of my
life and look I'm not being dramatic
it's a fact it wasn't easy but it was
worth it
the Mel Robbins that you're hearing
right now is not the Mel Robbins that I
was just two years ago two years ago to
this exact birthday on the day that I
turned 52 I did not wake up and feel
like a million bucks I did not see an
open road I saw a dead end I was not
kicking ass and taking names two years
ago when I turned 52 I was sucking wind
I woke up all alone I felt lost and
stuck and scared
here's what was going on in my life
I had just been fired from my dream job
and look I'd been fired from other jobs
in the past when I was younger but boy
at 52 that really stings then with kovid
the speaking and event business came to
a halt and as a small business owner I'm
responsible for the livelihood and
health care of 15 families including my
own
so I started to panic
as the income dried up I had no idea how
I was going to continue to make payroll
and to add to that I had people in my
inner circle that betrayed me they lied
to me they stole from me so I just felt
rocked because people that I trusted
that I had counted on had violated that
trust
that's what made me feel so damn alone
plus then College was canceled remember
that so we were all under the same roof
with our three kids two of whom were in
college and they were all anxious and
angry and sad and grieving I mean it was
like living with caged animals
I bet you felt a lot of these same
things and finally my husband Chris he
had just been diagnosed with long-term
depression
I mean talk about a shitstorm I felt
like absolutely everything was spiraling
out of control
so here I am on my 52nd birthday with
all this going on
and I wake up in the bunk room at my
mother-in-law's house where we're
quarantining
and I just started crying the sadness
that I had been trying to push down it
just poured out of me
and I instinctually picked up my phone
and I just started filming how I felt
I figured someone out there on the
internet would relate
and maybe just maybe
they might even be able to give me some
encouragement back
now when we come back after a short word
from our sponsors I'm going to play that
video that I made on my 52nd birthday
and you're gonna hear that sad lost Mel
Robbins and I want you to hear it
because I want you to know I've been
there and I've been there recently and
clearly if I'm where I'm at now kicking
ass taking names going after my dreams
doing better than ever
I know how to bridge the gap from where
you are to where you want to go
and later in the episode I'm going to
share those three steps with you that I
took to make powerful changes and
reinvent my whole life so that you can
use those same proven simple steps to
make whatever changes you want in the
next year of your life we'll be right
back hey all right so today is my 52nd
birthday
and
um
normally on my birthday I wake up
excited because I feel like I've just
been handed a clean slate and the
opportunity to create a brand new year
and
um I spend the day reflecting on the
last couple years and I spend
um the day brainstorming about what I
want to create this year and
this year is not a normal year I did not
wake up feeling excited I woke up
feeling lost
because as I thought back over the last
few years it's been an incredible
Adventure
but I've experienced a tremendous amount
of change in my professional and
personal life that has just knocked me
on my knees from losing my daytime talk
show
to having my book contract rescinded to
having the speaking business basically
implode
until at least another year from now
um
to not being able to be with you face to
face to not being able to work with my
team face to face I just got rocked
and then on top of it our son wanted to
go to high school in Vermont and so we
are in the process of moving from
the home that we've been in for over 20
years and raised our kids up to a very
small town in southern Vermont where I
know very few people and I feel very
disconnected
and the result of all this is I feel
stuck in between two lives
my old life which has ended and a new
life that I have yet to create for
myself and when I look ahead to the
future I feel overwhelmed I feel lost I
feel disconnected
I
in some ways I feel like I don't even
know who I am because I feel so
disconnected from the things that make
me feel alive and happy
oh my God
I was really lost I mean just hearing 52
year old me sound like that so sad it
just puts a pit in my stomach oh my God
and look I can kind of laugh about it
now because I'm on the other side of
this thing but when you're in it it can
be overwhelming
if I could go back in time and talk to
the 52 year old me here's what I would
do I would say first of all that's a lot
you should have a good cry
then I would give Mel a big huge hug
because in moments like that we need
reassurance but then
then comes a tough love
I'd be like look Mel you got to remember
who you are you can face this and then I
would drop this quote on her
hey woman if you want to fly you got to
give up the [ __ ] that weighs you down
Tony Morrison said that and boy ain't
that the truth you've got to give up the
[ __ ] that weighs you down and a lot of
times at least with me what's weighing
me down it's my own attitude and I know
you can relate to that I just hate that
saying it is what it is no it isn't it
is what you make it to be
the fact is there is always something
you can do to make yourself feel just a
little bit better
and when you do something that makes you
feel a little better no matter what's
going on that boost in your mood that
boost in your attitude it is essential
to helping you face any Challenge and
improve any situation and even though in
that video I felt lost there were three
things that I did and that I continued
to do over the past two years and that I
continue to do now all of which is
rooted in research to pick myself back
up and face the mess that my life had
become and more importantly to start
doing the work to create the life I
wanted
I believe that you are capable of
changing I do I've just seen too much
evidence over the course of my career
amazing changes the people just like you
and me have made so I know you're
thinking well this is great Mel but
where do I begin so step number one
You Begin by making a wish
just like that moment on your birthday
when you close your eyes and wish for
something to come true in this next year
of your life
right now do the same
close your eyes
and think about the next year of your
life
what do you want the next year of your
life to look like
Begin by making a wish
that's how I began two years ago
yep my business was upside down kids
were in shambles my husband was
struggling with depression and I was
struggling with everything
I had to create a break from that moment
of pain
and allow myself to see something
different at the time
I had no idea what the new chapter of my
life would be or could be here's what I
did know I don't want to stay in this
one and that's all you need to know
all you need to know is you don't want
to stay in the place that you're in
right now
that right there is a wish for something
better if you know what you don't want
it's very easy to change as soon as you
start removing or letting go of things
that aren't working you'll see all new
possibilities
so let's go back to that video that I
made on my 52nd birthday because once I
laid it all out there
I instinctually laid out the three steps
I was going to take I made a wish I
identified some things that I could do
that would make me feel a little better
and I also changed my attitude and if I
can do it so can you so let's go back to
the rest of that video from my 52nd
birthday and you're about to hear 52
year old Mel wipe away the tears and
start taking action here are the steps
I'm going to take number one
self-awareness is critical so
recognizing that you feel lost or
disconnected or suspended between your
old life and your new life overwhelmed
whatever you feel it's so important to
name it because when you name it you
bring it out of the feeling in your body
and out into the world and then you can
do things to tame that feeling
number two the most important thing that
you should do is move your body because
all this negative emotion is trapped in
your body right now and it's only
through exercise and motion that you'll
move it out of your body and you'll
change your emotional state
so I am going to go put on an exercise
tape and work up a sweat will that solve
all my problems no but it will put me in
a better emotional state so that I can
[Music]
think
more clearly and more optimistically and
start to see Solutions number three the
best advice about happiness is happy
people do things that make them happy
and so
after you move your body and you change
your emotional state do one thing that
makes you happy and for me I'm going to
go out and buy myself some beautiful
flowers
I've been doing a lot of writing this
morning just dumping all my thoughts
onto paper and I think journaling out
your thoughts is a really important
thing to do when you feel stuck or
overwhelmed or suspended
and then finally continue to remind
yourself that this is temporary this is
temporary this moment is temporary these
feelings are temporary this feeling of
stuckness and overwhelm is temporary oh
whoa
oh oh
those sneezes are temporary
and I think the biggest thing about that
Mantra that this is temporary is so is
your life
and maybe that's why birthdays are
overwhelming because
they always make you think about the
timeline of your life
and so after you become self-aware and
you move your body which moves your
emotions and you do something simple
that makes you happy and you dump all
your thoughts on a piece of paper
remind yourself that this is temporary
and force yourself to start dreaming
again
because when you give up on your dreams
you give up on yourself and I think
that's one of the reasons why
I woke up feeling lost today
when I look ahead I don't see anything
I'm looking forward to because I haven't
created something new to look forward to
and that's the secret how you're feeling
right now is a function of what you see
in the future
and if you see overwhelm and a blank
page and nothingness that's how you're
going to feel right now
and so I want you to dream big I want
you to put something on that paper
that's out in that future that calls to
you that gives you something to look
forward to to go for that's how you will
pull yourself out of it and that's how
I'm going to pull myself out of this too
so that's my birthday message
not really inspiring
it's authentic and it's real because
this is where I am right now
and I also know that despite how low I
feel
I have a choice
I have a choice about what I do about it
I have a choice about who I'm going to
be in the face of it and I have a choice
about what comes next so by God I'm
going to
54321 push myself
to
create a future that really empowers me
and I want you to do the same too
if you could do anything for me for my
birthday
it would be for you to dream really big
today
that would mean everything to me
I love you way to go 52 year old me
Mel if you could only see where you end
up two years later you'd be so proud of
yourself woman
and you know what when you follow these
same three simple steps you're going to
be proud of yourself too and I want to
make sure you're not just listening
along or watching this podcast episode
on YouTube I want to make sure you're
able to apply these three takeaways and
what you're learning in this episode to
your own life right now
so let's recap what you've learned so
far
you've learned about the Fresh Start
effect and how temporal landmarks can
trigger a whole new chapter in your life
and unlock the intrinsic motivation
that's inside you that's going to help
you take action let's create your fresh
start right now
step one
you already heard this make a wish
just ask yourself one powerful question
what do I want the next year of my life
to look like
number two
no matter how you feel start taking the
actions that align with what you want in
your life
stop making the mistake of waiting to
feel happy or motivated before you take
action the secret it's taking action
first because if you can get moving you
can keep moving and research shows that
just a little boost in your mood impacts
your productivity for the rest of the
day it impacts your focus it gives you a
little uptick in energy taking actions
that align with the bigger vision and
the future you it Taps into this huge
body of research called behavioral
activation therapy now you're going to
learn a tremendous amount about this
therapy modality in future episodes of
the Mel Robbins podcast but here's how
I'd summarize it for you act like the
person you want to become in the future
no matter how you feel in the present
moment look I know it sounds simple act
like the future you but this is grounded
in decades of research and it works this
is how I've made every single change in
my life once I figure out what I want to
do or the kind of person I want to
become I figure out someone else in the
world that's doing it and I just reverse
engineer it and that's how you create a
brick path that leads from where you are
right now to where that wish of yours
wants to take you and every morning wake
up take one action in the lines with
what you want or the person that you
want to become and you can consider that
action it represents one brick
and if you keep doing that day by day
Brick by Brick action by action you're
going to look up a year from now and
you'll realize oh my God I just paved a
brick path leading to my dreams what the
heck Melrose right and step number three
in making powerful change in your life
find the proof that you can do it
it's all around you you just need to
look for it
find anyone that has the life that you
want or that has made the change that
you want to make the relationship the
career the body the family the friend
group anytime you see someone who has
already made the change you want to make
in your life tell yourself there's proof
it exists use people as evidence that
yes you can have what you wish for too
if you're willing to work for it see
people as a light on the path to your
future self for years that was not me I
was the opposite I did not see other
people as lights on my path I saw people
as robbing me of the lights that I
wanted I had this really stingy jealous
and insecure attitude if a friend of
mine was renovating their kitchen I
would smile the tight smile that people
have when they're faking their smile and
I go oh it's so pretty I love the white
cabinets but inside I was seething with
jealousy and the reason why is because I
believed that somebody else's happiness
or success somehow was robbing me of
mine
it's the opposite their beautiful
kitchen means if I can work for it I can
have one too they're amazing
relationships means I can create it too
their success or the business they've
built means it's possible for you too
this alone if you just do this third
step this one mindset flip it is a
complete Game Changer here's how you do
it there is unlimited success happiness
and fulfillment in the world you're not
in competition with anyone
the only one that can rob you of the
success happiness and fulfillment that
you deserve is you and your excuses and
fears and sitting around waiting to feel
motivated we're going to stop that today
correct good I'm glad you're listening
because we're not doing that anymore
you're not going to wait six years to
get started you are going to start
taking actions that align with what you
want now and when you see other people
as evidence of what's possible for you
as you start seeing them not as
extinguishing your light
but lighting the path that you're now
walking on holy cow talk about throwing
gasoline on that internal fire of yours
and by the way
don't you ever forget
you are a light on the path for someone
else
and you don't even realize it
so
think about that for a second
you are just a step or two ahead of
someone else
I mean if you've grieved the Lost of a
loved one if you've changed your career
if you've survived heartache if you've
sold a family home if you've reinvented
some aspect of your life if you've lost
weight if you're able to live with
depression if you're the first in your
family to graduate from college your
life experience proves to someone else
that it's possible for them too
so you better make sure that as you
start chipping away at your own wishes
and goals that you hold that light up a
little bit higher for everybody that's
behind you now these steps sound super
simple
so I'm gonna go through them one more
time because I want to make sure you get
how powerful they are so let's go back
to 52 year old Mel and let me explain
how each one of these steps worked for
me back when I was sad and lost two
years ago
so step number one you make a wish
you gotta consider that question what do
I want my life to look like now here's
the truth
I couldn't answer that question two
years ago when I was 52 sitting there
crying in the bunk room I had no idea
I didn't know what I wanted I didn't
even know how to fix all my problems
and that's okay
you don't have to know the answers
because those will come
but I did know I didn't want to stay
feeling sad and that's all I needed to
start the change
because step two is once you know one
small thing I don't want to feel so sad
I don't want to be lost on my birthday
just take actions that align with that
thing that you want I wanted to be
happier
so I just focused on simple things I
could do in that day to make me feel a
little better I get it this isn't rocket
science but it works but somehow when
you start to apply this stuff it does
feel like rocket science because it does
launch you somewhere else so that day I
exercised I bought myself flowers I
watched some stand-up comedy specials on
TV so I would laugh a little I just
force myself to do those things to start
walking toward what I wanted which was
just to feel a little happier and look
this stuff doesn't work overnight it
works over time and so every day I just
woke up and I kept making myself do the
things that made me feel a little better
even though I didn't feel like it simple
things exercising journaling and I kept
on contemplating that question what do I
want my life to look like and over time
day after day brick after brick as I
added in positive forward action aligned
with feeling a little happier and as I
started to let go of things that were
bringing me tension or sadness or
friction
the answer started to emerge
I didn't want to travel so much for work
I didn't want to miss out on my son's
High School the way I missed out on our
daughter's High School experience
I wanted to get reconnected at a really
deep level with my husband
I wanted to have time to see friends
again and do things in the community
I didn't want to feel so damn busy and
burnt out
and I didn't want to fall asleep with a
to-do list on my mind and wake up every
morning panic-stricken because of how
much I had to get done I wanted to
simplify my life and get serious about
being happier and more content in it
and as you ask yourself the question
what do you want your life to look like
be patient as I got clearer about what I
wanted and then I aligned my actions
with that new vision I started acting
like the person I wanted to become
simplifying means saying no
it means asking for help
and I chipped away day by day and I
started getting my mental health in
order slowed down and I created an
entirely different relationship with my
husband by jumping into therapy I also
started being more present with my kids
and through all these small changes I
realized something bigger it was time to
sell the house that we had raised our
kids in for 26 years outside of Boston
Massachusetts
and create a simpler life in southern
Vermont
and as I started to say no and put What
mattered to me first
I all of a sudden had more time to do
what I really wanted which is to launch
this podcast because I wanted to forge a
deeper connection with you Brick by
Brick I laid a path with my actions and
now here I am and if I can do it you can
do it and that's why step number three
is critical look for lights on the path
I looked for other people who had
simpler business models who had
relationships and who were doing the fun
things that I wanted to do and I just
let them light the way toward the future
I wanted I kept telling myself if they
can do it I can do it and if you don't
have anyone in your life like that
someone that lights the way for you let
me be that person tell yourself if Mel
Robbins can do it then I can do it
because it's true I'm living proof that
if I can do it you can do it big change
starts with small wishes like I want to
feel happier
and Tiny actions lead to massive
transformation over time psychologically
speaking those little daily moves
forward that I was making trying to just
be a little bit happier moving toward
the person I really wanted to become it
changes what you believe about yourself
because doing the small things every
single day especially when you don't
feel like it it proves that you do have
a choice about what you do and how you
feel and eventually as you do the small
things that make you feel better and
better and better you will feel better
and better and better and as you see
yourself taking these little actions you
start seeing yourself taking control and
the momentum the pride and the
confidence builds inside you that's what
happened to me and I know the same will
be true for you and I have proof that
this works so yesterday check this out I
got an email from a woman named Danielle
and guess what she was writing me about
she was writing to tell me about a year
ago she stumbled upon guess what video
yeah you guessed it the one I made on my
52nd birthday I mean come on what are
the odds I was about to start taping an
episode about the same video and now
suddenly I'm getting
an email from a stranger telling me Oh
by the way Mel I saw that video on your
52nd birthday and I followed the steps
in it and now my life has changed what
are the odds those are magical and I
always pay attention to that kind of
stuff so I reached out to her I talked
to her on the phone and now I want you
to listen to her read the email she sent
to me yesterday I just love this kind of
stuff because it all connects and before
I play it I want to warn you that this
may be triggering for you to hear
because when Danielle stumbled upon that
52nd birthday video of mine she was in a
way worse place than I was up in that
bunk room
she was thinking of ending her life
your birthday saved my life the video
made on your 52nd birthday was the first
Mel video I had ever seen and it was the
last day
of my life
or it would have been
a couple years previously I had made a
pact with one of my best friends
that if either one of us were thinking
about suicide we would call
one another
and we would talk as long as we needed
and at the end of the talk I had with
him the night before
he made me promise him that I would give
my life 24 more hours
because a day can change everything is
what he said
and the next day late afternoon waiting
for night to come
YouTube said I should watch your video
and I promised my friend 24 hours more
which I spent largely watching her
videos
and I'm still here you know and it
sounds a little bit
even silly but
um I remember at one point in the video
when she just you know she got to the
point where she had laid it all out
there how she feels and what's going on
that she said so this is what I'm gonna
do I'm gonna go out and I'm gonna buy
myself some flowers
and I was like okay I get that like you
know I mean happiness isn't like a goal
that like once you've completed all
these things in your life that are wrong
with it then you're allowed to be happy
it's something that you actually have to
try to do every day and and you can't
just do this one little thing and that
can make today better than it was
I mean come on now don't you just love
Danielle
and look over the past year Danielle has
been slowly chipping away at creating a
better life just like I have for these
past two years and just like you're
gonna do now that you've listened to
this episode see doing the little things
every single day that align with where
you're going and who you want to become
that's the secret it works
the bottom line is you have the power to
change your life period you have to act
like the person you want to become
before you feel like that person and if
I can do it you can do it plain and
simple
there are things that are locked in your
heart and your mind and soul that are
calling to you
stop denying it there are changes that
you want to make stop ignoring those
changes the whole point of this episode
is to get you to not only believe that
change is possible for you but to start
taking the steps to make the change a
reality I want you to claim what you
want by the end of this episode I want
you to close your eyes and envision
something amazing in this next year of
your life because yes you can change and
yes you can take the actions that will
make that change a reality I mean is it
going to happen overnight of course not
but it'll change over time
and if you can make today
just a little better
guess what
you can make tomorrow a little better
and if you can have a better day then
you can have a better week and if you
can have a better week you can have a
better month and those months lead
ultimately down the path to the life
that you envision for yourself
you deserve to be happy
and I believe that you're listening to
this episode right now with Mel Robbins
because you are meant to I mean think
you could you could have put you could
have picked a million other episodes but
you are on this one right now with me
why
because you're supposed to hear this at
this exact moment in your life
you needed the reminder that there is
something bigger that is meant for you
you got so much amazing stuff to do with
this next year of your life you got
dreams to fulfill you got lives to
change stop focusing your energy on the
stupid crap that weighs you down it does
not matter your past does not matter the
things that you're worried about it
doesn't matter I mean who cares if they
didn't read your text who cares if you
didn't get that job you applied for do
you know how many jobs there are out
there
it's time to see the bigger picture
it's time to focus on what you want
I know I get it it sucks when you get
the courage to ask somebody out and they
say no or you work for months trying to
close a massive sale and it goes to
somebody else and it's an awful feeling
to wake up and have the depression be
overwhelming and you're not going to
feel like kicking ass today you're going
to feel like licking your Woods I got it
and here's what I'm going to tell you
have a good cry
give yourself a hug and then dig deep
and let Mel Robbins remind you of who
you are there is power inside of you to
face this and to make it better and you
know it in those moments when you feel
like you just got punched in the gut
you have power within you you have the
ability to create this fresh start to
close your eyes to Envision what you
want instead of surviving through what
you have
on those mornings when you wake up with
the weight of the world on your
shoulders wake up and get your ass out
of bed get dressed get yourself out the
door and do the things that make you
feel slightly better start acting like
the person you want to become instead of
the person you are today start taking
actions that align with what you want in
your life it's only when you start to
act before you feel ready that this
turns around
I get it you should have landed the
funding you did deserve the job it does
blow when you don't get into your dream
school and your best friend does
but you know what
that's not going to stop you from
getting what you want because you
are gonna pick yourself back up
you know that this is going to pass you
know that through your actions and your
attitude you can change where you're at
and you know that you can make yourself
feel a little bit better no matter what
you're facing
and you can't tell me otherwise
every single day when you wake up the
clock resets
the past expires and the future
it is yours to create
there is an Open Road there is a blank
page there is a wish that you need to
turn into a reality
today is a gift and you get to decide
what you're going to do with that gift
is it one day
or day one
you decide
you decide with the actions you take
today
you can change
and today is the day to prove it to
yourself so go do it
this is not a Thinking podcast this is a
doing podcast so here's what you're
going to do first of all you got a
bookmark or save this episode because
the next time you feel a little kicked
down trust me you're going to want a
little Mel Robbins motivational magic in
your life I will remind you of who you
are and the steps to get that power back
that's number one number two
Let's Make A Wish
as soon as this episode is over you're
going to create a voice memo
from your future self as if that wish
that you have for this coming year has
come true
here's what you're going to do I want
you to time travel ahead of you
pretend you are in this life you've done
the work to make your wish your reality
now turn on that voice memo
and act like the future you
and tell the person today
what's life like a year from now
describe it in detail what's your day
look like what are you doing what have
you changed how proud of you how proud
of yourself are you just like I told you
what I would go back and say to the 52
year old Mel
I want the future you to say you're
going to be so proud of yourself let me
tell you where all this hard work this
next year ends up
and third if you got anything out of
this please follow or subscribe to the
Mel Robbins podcast that way these
episodes will be right there ready for
you in your queue when they drop
and also it's one of the biggest things
that you could do to support me and the
success of this podcast just follow the
show and finally here's one other thing
you could do
we talked a lot about lights on the path
be one for someone else and share this
episode with anybody that you care about
that you know needs to hear this and
finally
please
find the courage and the confidence
that's within you
it's in there you were born with it when
you go to make that wish
and you close your eyes and that Fresh
Start effect takes hold
I want you to imagine something big
don't hold yourself back
really go for it
because here's the deal
you've now got Mel Robbins as a friend
and I'm going to be not only a light on
the path I'm gonna be here every single
week twice a week as an essential part
of you turning that wish into a reality
I'll bring the support the encouragement
and I will certainly be celebrating you
as you do the work to make that dream
come true
every single episode of the Mel Robbins
podcast by the way is not only released
on every podcast Network in audio we got
long-form uncut behind the scene video
versions as well and all the resources
show note studies absolutely everything
that you could need to dig in deeper it
is all linked with every episode at
melrobbins.com why are we doing that
because change is hard enough and it is
way more fun and a hell of a lot easier
when you and I we do it together
and that's what I want to do
I want to make this fun and easy for
both of us
I want you to feel connected as you're
going after your goals I want you to
hold my hand as we go through the ups
and downs of life because there is no
avoiding the challenging moments so how
about we lock arms let's leave no one
behind and let's do this thing called
life together
oh and one more thing
from the bottom of my heart
thank you
this 54th birthday
has already been the very best birthday
of my entire life because of you
thank you for your support thank you for
listening to this episode thank you for
sharing the episode and thank you on
behalf of my team for having us debut
at the top of almost every freaking
chart around the world and in case no
one else tells you today I wanted to be
sure to tell you that I love you and I
believe in you and your ability to
create a life you truly love all right
now go blow out all those candles and
make that wish come true
foreign
[Music]
thank you so much for being here if you
enjoyed that video bye God please
subscribe because I don't want you to
miss a thing thank you so much for being
here we've got so much amazing stuff
coming thank you so much for sending
this stuff to your friends and your
family I love you we create these videos
for you so make sure you subscribe